From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 85.
Recorded live Monday, October 19th, 2009. Support
for Hanselman it's provided by
Tellerik RD controls the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com in this episode,
live from the dev days
conference in San Francisco. Scott
talks with Joel Spolsky, Jeff
Atwood and Rory Bly. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes slash Jack or
flow coming into your own
other space and time. And
here we are content free
backstage at stack overflow brought
to you by Telerik is
brought to you by it
conversations. Yes. The conference is
brought to you by all
kinds of people, stack overflow
Carsonified fog bugs, SmartBear software.
Codera paid for the wifi,
which we did really good.
Really good and turn on.
But yeah, and it was
a nice thought and Microsoft,
Oh, Microsoft is here in
the lobby upgrading everybody's laptops.
That was sweet. That was
pretty nice. And it wasn't
announced because they didn't want
people to bring their laptops.
Didn't want to let people
know too many, but now
everybody's coming to Seattle will
presumably know to bring their
laptop and just put in
like a 16 K chip
or something. Like I got
16 K and seriously he's
upgrading everyone to four kids.
He's asking him, went to
the maximum of their laptops
will hold. Yeah, that's great.
That's Brandon Watson actually just doing
that. He's our cloud services
guy. I'll part of the
value proposition of the dip
days. This has been an
episode of, so, so let
me ask you this it's
a pretty mixed crowd. It
was a, it's an exceeded.
It was really difficult. I
felt for me to present
what I was doing because
at the end, a couple
of the guys said that
was really great. Thanks a
lot for coming. I'm still
gonna write Mark, right? I
mean, I wasn't here to
pitch them. We were just
really here to kind of
chat, right? Yeah. I mean
like my ideal of this
conference is that if you're
a good developer, you're constantly
encountering technologies that you wish
you had time to learn
about. And you kind of
wanting to spend more time
with, and pretty much everything
we're doing jQuery, Android, iPhone,
or this kind of things
that like, I really need
to learn something about this
and see if it's that
interesting. And so we thought
the most appealing possible kind
of conference would be like,
Hey, these are the five
to six technologies that people
most want to learn this
year. And haven't, and the
fewest people know, but the
most people have heard of
in which they can sort
of learn a little bit
more about. So that was
sort of the organizing theme,
I think. Well, it's also
reflective of the actual user
base of stack overflow. It's
very diverse. Yeah. You know,
we're trying to pitch to
people, you know, get outside
your ghetto a little bit,
like rub shoulders with how
other developers get outside your
ghetto. That's the informal tagline,
not the official one, but
it really is like that.
I mean, you have the
ghettoization where all I do
is X and I don't
really know or care about
any of this other stuff
that's going on. Like for
example, and this might be
embarrassing to admit, but like
seeing Roy do objective C
was really the first time
I had really seen objective
C and actually looked at
the first time he'd ever
seen C no, I've seen
C before, but objective C
is a whole different animal.
It kind of made my
face hurt a little, like
watching an apartment. What are
those little dashes? Little what?
Little, little dashes. The lines,
the lines start with the
dash and objective C sometimes.
Okay. Okay. So if a
line starts with the dash
and objective C, it means
it's an incidence method. If
it starts with a plus,
it means it's a studying
method. Oh, okay. I mean,
it's intuitive and obvious. So
cut it. I would have
guessed comment. I was going
to go with negative using
me as a probably bad
examples. Like this is my
opportunity to expose to iPhone
development. Like probably literally for
the first time and seeing
it like any kind of
detail, somebody run through it
in the ID. Cause I
mean, who has time? Right?
Like I'm kind of busy
with the things that I'm
doing. So it's nice to
get sort of jolted a
little bit. And then it's
kind of the goal of
stack overflow. And when Joel
set it up, he did
a good job of matching
the spirit of stack overflow
to the spread of the
conference. I thought, So why
wouldn't I just watch it
online? Say what's the, is
it the fact that we're
forced into the theater and
we were right. It's like
a parade of different technologies.
Again, microphones working at this
conference. The idea of lots
of getting cameras, according at
this conference is above and
beyond. But I actually have
something on this day, but
not the people that are
speaking right now. No, we
don't have internet. Yeah. And
what does it meant? So
ghetto, it's not nice to
use the word ghetto for
what this conference is, but
it's a $99 content entry
level conference call this conference
ghetto. I think doesn't do
the work ghetto service. Okay.
This is not a bad
conference, but we're trying to
do it in a very
economical way. Yeah. You're being
really hard on yourself and,
and, and no, no, I'm
serious. So after doing so
many of these things, like
talking about the promises I
walked right in and both
times just stuck the lapel,
right? Yep. Pull my red
on me and it worked
right. And I actually went
in the back and I
was talking to Scott in
the dressing room and I
had a lapel mic on
the whole time. I never
switched to intro to standby.
I had no idea that
it was actually on, but
it turns out I wasn't
broadcasting because the staff was
good enough to know that.
Well, that was on Ustream
no, no. Yeah. You're right.
You're right. So they didn't,
they've actually been really, really
good. That's true. It's called
Carson. Those guys are Carsonified.
Yeah. The only thing that's
wrong with this conference at
this point is the internet.
And let's wait let's every
conference, no one ever expects
to get an IP address
at a conference. That's the
way yeah. It can't be
done. That's what we, that's
what we've discovered. Who was
really good though, that you
probably picked that they figured
that out Buddha was not
good in LA. So we're
making up for that. Yeah,
but it was good in
Boston. It was good. In
another plan for Seattle. I
don't know. I'd get to
probably get surprised by this
every time. We'll see who
we have. You Rory, Rory,
not Jeff. Me. There'll be
a few others. We've got
an academic guy, Steve sights
in from university of Washington.
I'm tired. I'm tired. Tired.
I don't even know my
schedule. Oh, every other day.
Yeah. I'm basically doing one
of these conferences Monday, Wednesday,
Friday for three and a
half weeks. So that's what
that's, what's kind of killing
me. So since, since this
has gone nowhere in 14
minutes, and even though Rory
is raising his hand, do
you have a question? Is
this the first conference you've
ever put on? Pretty much.
Okay. You really do need
to be using yourself very
well. I'm just saying, I'm
just saying, thanks. What's all
this about duct tape. Oh,
we're going to talk about
content. Like this is going
to be substantial. I just
got deleted duct tape. I
think people misunderstood. What I
meant about buck duct tape.
Duct tape is a simple
tool that gets something done.
And the duct tape programmer.
I like invented that word
instead of saying quick and
dirty programming like that because
it's not what I meant.
I meant this is a
different kind of programmer who
was always afraid to use
like these latest gadgets that
they just heard about it
on a Hanselman it's a
week before. And it just
came out, which are awesome.
Don't get me wrong. But
sometimes you have a really
critical project and you're trying
to get it to work.
Listen, let me give you
an example just from, just
from the conference, all the
audio visual of the conference
you've got, and we know
this is podcast is we
all know this is podcasters.
This is a real mic.
This is a professional like
this connector. Thanks for that.
And my back back and
my back and my back
and my back, that's an
XLR connector. It's bounced. There
are three, there are three
power. There are three wires
going through here because it's
bounds. It's not from radio
shack. You could get maybe,
nah, not this nice. And
you got plugged into decent
M audio gear. Now we
could be using one of
those little radio shack, cheapo
or Kmart microphone. You know,
that comes like my first
karaoke machine. And you could
have a plugged into a
laptop and be like, what's
wrong with my laptop. It's
got a little mic port
on the side and you
could try to do a
podcast that way. And it
kind of work. And after
15 minutes, your little recorder
app would crash or just
things would go wrong. And
the same thing happens at
a conference you've got kind
of high end Davey tools,
high end video tools, high-end
internet access. And if you
don't have that, then it
doesn't work. It's the internet
access they have here is
an airport express. That's a
consumer grade thing. That's not
a high end thing and
it just falls down. It
doesn't. So the duct tape
programmer says, listen, I know
that you've got your fancy
digital giga that I can
get for only 1995. And
it's all awesome. And it
lets me run my whole
conference digitally and all the
mix could be digitizing right
here and sending it onto
an IP network and blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. And
they never ever do that
at real conferences in real
shows, in real plays, they
use the same old, old
school. This XLR thing was
invented in 1903 or something.
I mean, it's the same
exact interface it's been around
since the beginning of time,
which was 1903. Well, I
don't know. It's just the
beginning of like electronics. The
XLR has a ridiculously old
interface. It's from the old
to the old, the old
days of radio, right. Or
the three of us were
born certainly. And that stuff
still works. It's like simple.
So let me make sure
I understand. So it's about
two things. It's about pro
level versus consumer level. It's
also about tools that have
like a long history of
being well established and well
understood. The guy, the guy
doing the mic, Roy that
you were saying was doing
an awesome job and he
needed to cut you off
and stuff like that. He's
been on the road. He's
been a roadie for 30
years. He's been doing rock
concerts. He, he had that
look. I mean, I looked
at him and he looks
like a roadie. Who's been
doing this for, And not
just that you didn't even
catch this, but in the
mean, the morning he had
a way of talking to
you, that puts you at
ease about the AAV, which
he's learned at the 30
years of how to make
the performers not stress out
about the equipment. And you
know, just that kind of
like telling little funny jokes
and stuff like that, and
just basically calming everybody down
around him, bedside manner, bedside
manner. Exactly. And that's just
like, it takes a lot
of experience. It takes a
lot of, and he's not
going to use some new,
crazy, ridiculous. He's just going
to plug in and you're
gonna be like, why don't
you have this all on
a big old audio IP
network with super, and then
instead of having 400 of
these cables going from the
front of the house to
the back of the house,
you got one little cat
five, which somebody steps on
the whole thing goes down
and nobody knows what happened
because it's interfering with some
who knows what and with
the XLR, it's a well,
you know, to solve problems.
Well, no problem. The downs
cables and whatnot. So it's
also known versus unknown new
stuff tends to be less
well known, less tested just
by virtue of being newer.
It's kind of a little
bit suspect, even though it's
better. Yeah. Ultimately it will
be better ultimately, when we
may want to use It
may win. So is this
about picking things, picking a
technology to get the job
done at the appropriate level
Adoption curve? Like for example,
I picked Vantis. Yeah. Like,
I don't know, six years
ago. Yeah. For about five
years, but I haven't had
a problem with Vonage for
the last year. It's like,
you got one at a
sixth grade in all seriousness
though. It's solved now voiceover.
Right. He worked, but it
took a half decade to
like pull it off. I
think people don't realize how
long it takes for some
of the, the technologies that
we're using in code to
like get to that point
where you understand it. Well
enough. I mean, we're always,
especially given the web and
the nature of things going
on. See, did you see
your computer? Just  me
now? My computer is just
either falling apart. Yeah, no,
it's just a, it's just
like screensaver time now I'm
not blogging, but that you
can't have that happening in
a conference. In fact, it
did this morning at a
little movie stopped in the
middle because this is actually
a battery for that. I
see these require Phantom power,
but also your iPhone battery,
isn't it? Yes. That is,
that is my best portable
battery pack slash laptop. I
remember one of my favorite
photos of Scott carrying around
a little, like a ultra
mini PC and like using
it to power his life.
I saw like this is
my battery pack for my
iPhone. So yeah. So why
don't people get on a
twist about the duct tape?
I think that what they,
they, they saw the duct
tape programmer and they thought
of the, the style of
program and we just slapped
and duct duct tape on
something. And that is something
that a duct tape program
will do. Cause a duct
tape is well understood. And
B sometimes is you're in
a rush to ship so
that your company doesn't go
out of business and it
is worth incurring technical debt,
right? Like we all, we
all already saying technical debt
these days is if that's
a bad thing, you're going
to have to pay that
down, but taking a little
debt. And another way of
looking at is taking the
leverage. It allows you to
get code done more quickly
so that you can ship
it. Now. Then there are
people that are just really,
really determined to say that
being an extremely slow and
cautious developer and writing TDD
test for all your getters
and setters is a actually
makes you write code faster.
And most of the good
developers, I know many of
the good developers. I know
don't actually think that way.
So, so that's like, whoops,
now I just got myself
in trouble without even getting
myself out of trouble. But
what happened is that the
teeth people read the article
that duck they program. And
they said, Oh, Joel is
about to write saying dirty
programming is good, sloppy programming,
gunslingers, fastest gun in the
West, whatever bad crappy programming
is good. And that is
not what I was saying
at all whatsoever. It seems
like if you had said
something more Software craftsmanship is
good or the Yankee workshop
is a great show on
people Would have been really
boring. Well, I know the
title was link bait now,
but it had to be
like, don't, don't you? I
mean, I shop at Ikea.
Yeah. I sit on my
Ikea couch and I watched
the Yankee workshop and I
see how this guy is
like using like the tools
that Laura Ingalls Wilder, his
grandfather used to make, you
know, and he works for
six months to make a
chair and that chair will
live forever. And don't, you
kind of sit on your
Ikea couch and gosh, wish
that you had that kind
of tool or that talent
or that whatever, Sometimes, sometimes
it's worth doing. And sometimes
it doesn't make sense cause
you're just opening a coffee
shop. That's going to have
the best coffee and Portland.
And you want to get
a couch that people can
sit on so that you
can open it and you
have X dollars and having
the nicest craft and blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, is
not going to bring you
any closer to having a
successful coffee shop. So you
kind of have to decide.
And sometimes you're not, not
everything. It's not always appropriate
to use the most gold-plated
tool in the world for
what you're doing. Sometimes it's,
what's not in sending out
and getting it out to
the people so they can
use it and try it
and give you money for
it. I just want to
say, I'm also totally Not
advocating that people go out
and just do really sloppy
job stuff. But yeah. And
I'm not naming any or
any people or any companies,
But I have been involved
in some projects since leaving
Microsoft where there were times
Since leaving Microsoft. Yeah. Since
leaving Microsoft, where, where there
have been times when release
of software was delayed because
there was a perfectionist aspect
of the code. And the
reality is when users are
using your stuff, like they
don't know what it looks
like underneath and they don't
care if it works. And
if it's not perfectly done,
it doesn't really matter. Like
get it out there and
then give yourself like the
version two release to predefine.
It. Maybe that comes right
back to this whole conference,
which I, which is I'm
sitting here stressing out like
crazy because all kinds of
stuff is not working behind
the scenes. But the bottom
line is the speakers are
on stage and they're teaching
people stuff and their laptop
is being projected on the
monitor. And the people are
sitting in the audience and
learning and that's all we
need. Yeah. You're, you're stressing
out about stuff that I
had no idea it was
even going on. You didn't
even know it was going
on and you're a speaker
let alone. Yeah. It feels
I didn't detect any problems.
So yeah, We arrived. I
walked on stage the equipment
worked and did my talk
people applauded. I stepped off.
I didn't have a problem
with anybody. It was just,
yeah, except for the world,
except for those guys. And
they're starting to work. It's
a verb again. It's another
NBC framework Like for like
rails, but it's not rails
rails itself. Okay. It's another
Ruby. It's Ruby. It's a,
I think it's a Ruby
NBC framework. Okay. But it's
fun. It's more fun to
say Merck is to say
rails. So they use, it
sounds like a guy sounds
like some dude named Merv
is out there. I'm not
even if I state my
opinion of, of the Ruby
programmers, this, this, this, this,
this, this, this, this it's
going to be brains in
a room. Thing is turned
into. Let's see what wacky
stuff we can get Joel
to say I'm giving up.
Oh yeah. So when it
comes down to what wacky
stuff, can we get someone
to, Let's give the mic
to Rory. Okay. Could you
give me like a question?
Did you just want me
to extemporize? Cause I can
do that for hours. I
can just talk for hours
seriously. I'm sorry. What my
sister was here, which is
most exciting program. She's not
exactly a program. And she
worked for the San Francisco
bar. She was like a
clerical worker and the whole,
you know, the attorneys. Yeah,
no, yeah. She's not like,
yeah, no, it's, it's the
whole attorney referral service center.
And she didn't really, she
wasn't a coder. She was
assuming like data entry and
she didn't like the data
entry out there using those
written access. So she went
and decided to just rewrite
the thing without asking anybody
and eventually changed the way
that her department was doing
the business. And then some
of the classic software engineering
story, it was awesome. And
some people were so impressed
that they were like, Hey,
why don't we go off
and start a business? So
now she runs a business
that specializes in providing a
web and software services to
people in legal profession. She
doesn't actually code like code
code, but I went to
her office yesterday and she
has like, she has jQuery
books on the shelf, which
I was like CSS, jQuery
books, man. Like that was
weird. He's right. Yeah. No
there's there's stuff. My sister
knows that I dealt with
and she just picked it
up out of nowhere. But
she, she Started coding almost
before I did right back
in 1984. I think she,
well, it was 83, 84.
She wrote a first app
and like, she kind of
got me going. And so
it was neat to have
her here. It was really
neat to have her here.
And I don't know if
she dug it. So wait,
is there any truth your
sister actually wrote a Am
I okay. I was writing
software for the timing Sinclair
1000 in 1983. And she
wrote the first app on
an IBM PC. She beat
me to that. All right.
And I saw what she
did and I was jealous.
And then I went and
I went up there and
then I two up there
and then I just, it
was a factor of, you
know, Virgilian Timex Sinclair. 1000
was the programming, had the
programming language where instead of
saying print, which would take
five bites, you a peak
period to save three bucks.
Well, it wasn't just, yeah,
they had that. They had
a weird keyboard where you
didn't actually type, you would
hit a button that's at
print. Yeah. That would just
stick everything. Yeah. It was
bizarre. And you had to
retype it every single time
because you had no storage
format and ours is upgraded
to, I think two K
of Ram. It was a
great platform for learning because
you had to write your
app every single time you
wanted to use it. Those
calculators that they had in
those days that, you know,
like the T I M
as a Texas instruments, programmable
calculator and the HP 65.
And you know, you had
about a hundred instructions that
you can store every time,
every time. But this look
up to the TV. Oh
yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I
wrote a spreadsheet for one
of them. Not just kidding,
Speaking of missing. So I
missed when programming was like
hard, you know what I
mean? Like it wasn't like
building stuff with Legos when
you were actually yeah. Inventing
new kinds of labels, you
know, what's funny is how
many we have. We have
speakers. How many of the
speakers today? But we're basically
doing like the first year,
first VB, 1.0 app like,
Oh look, and then I
clicked the cute, the cute
guy, the iPhone. I mean,
he wasn't cute. No.
Well, okay. I don't get
in trouble. QT is Nakia
is now owned by Nakia.
Yeah. Parents are pronounced Nakia.
Yeah. It's definitely not yet
finished. Yeah. I just know
he spoke French. It's the
things you can learn. So
what did he actually do?
What happened? He basically made
an app that was one
of these hello world. Like,
look, look what I did
in VB. 1.0, I just
made an edit box. And
when you click on it,
it adds it to the
list box below there. And
his was kind of cool
because it ran on Symbian
devices and it ran on
Unix and it ran on
Mac. What you didn't show
any ran on windows, but
I mean, we're still doing
these. We're still coming up
with these new frameworks and
anything like that. And the
demo it gets, everybody started
it. He's always like, you
know, look how I have
a box and edit box
that sends a text, you
know, parameter to a method
on some other box that's
on his page. And that's
a, that's kind of what
all these apps do. It's
all visual basic 1.0 It
is kind of beginner. No,
it is. And that's the
exciting thing. And that's why
I've always liked mobile. Like
when I went to the
pocket PC back in the
day and it was just
an embedded visual basic and
embedded a visual C plus
plus you really had to
Make a lot of stuff
up. Right. And that's one
of the reasons I enjoy
the iPhone is that it's
actually still hard. Right. And
you like the iPhone, cause
it's hard for you. You
have to deal with, it's
funny. When I was working
in visual basic six, the
thing that I enjoyed the
most was working on the
Palm pilot at night. Yeah.
One of the applications that
I worked on in the
Palm pilot, cause I have
my forecast stack and I
did the whole thing and
see the most like the
most like, like you don't
have a programming experience where
you like lift your hands
in victory, like hero on
heroes. Like one of those
experiences, it was drawing a
circle. Exactly. Because the iPhone,
the iPhone computer, it was
the gluco pilot application. Okay.
Application for diabetics in the
Palm pilot. And what was
significant about it was that
there was no floating point
and there was no math
library. So I had to
take an integer and chop
it in half and do
fixed point math. And then
the screen was like 160
by 160 pixels, like an
old QuickTime movie. But there
was talk about going to
three 20 by three 20,
which was going to be
huge. So I wanted to
be future proof. So what
I ended up doing was
building a array in a,
like a, like a static
resource that described a 1000
by 1000 circle and then
scaled it appropriately and then
wrote co-sign and sign stuff.
And then was like, all
right, now I'm ready to
draw some dots. Right? Well
there's no get pixel or
put pixel on the early
Palm pilot. So then your
ex ordering it directly to
memory, you know what I
mean? And then, then you
go on, you show your
wife, Hey, I drew a
circle on this tiny device.
He's like, yeah, great. And
you've been up how many
nights? And this is paying,
this is paying the mortgage.
How man, the victory, you
know what I mean? The
accomplishment, One thing I would
like to comment on is
that there's so much mobile
here. I mean, it's really
surprising how much energy there
is in the mobile space
that wasn't really there three
to four years ago. And
so between web and mobile,
it's like what happened to
the executable styler? And you
know, it's like, where did
that go? This seems to
be where all the energy
is right now. And just
one comment on the iPhone
stuff. And, and I It's
10 times the penetration, right?
Like you're going to reach
10 times as many people
on any little cell phone
devices here. Cause it's their
computer. Yeah. Cause it's even
our computer. Right. Everybody who
has a laptop has a
phone. And then there are
all these people that just
have phones if their phone
too. I think that's the
other crucial thing is that
they have phones. Right? They
gotta have phones. Yeah. I
was in Tanzania a couple
of, well last, last Christmas.
And we were driving between
Urrutia Tanzania and the border,
the Southern border of Kenya
to pick up my brother
in law. And we were
out in the middle of
nowhere and I'm getting uncomfortable
and the brakes overheat and
the driver is pouring cold
water on our brakes. And
we're standing in the middle
of nowhere. And I mean,
there's no bigger words than
that. I'm like, I am
alone with this driver in
freaking Kenya. That's why I
look at my phone calls
by the side of the
road with the vultures there.
It was, it was pretty
much exactly like that. There's
like, you know, African, what
are those tumbleweeds going by
and stuff. And then I
see a guy in the
distance like, Oh right now
I'm going to get killed
by a massage. Yeah. Well
he was walking by full
Mussai regalia, the whole thing,
texting he's texting. So I
look at my, I look
at my Blackberry and it
says, Kenya, sell five bars.
Wow. You could not see
anything in any direction. And
we had five bars and
people were chilling. Yeah. And
they use SMS over there.
Well, that's the best way
to get on Twitter. Yeah,
exactly. That's all my Mussai
friends are Twittering. No, but
they, they, they, they do
market. They have the complete
eBay marketplaces on SMS with
L use short codes to
describe what they're selling and
hook up with with other
people who are selling stuff.
What You can say, don't
they also, they have like
these little one person, mobile
phone companies to Africa. Yeah.
I'm talking about, I'm talking
about like the one person
who has the cell phone.
They like lease out cell
phone, time to the other
people. It's not called a
neighborhood. Talk about Africa. We're
not talking about like the
city, right? Like if you
go to the city, you
can get an iPhone. I
was in Johannesburg and they
have an iPhone and they
have windows mobile phones and
they've got 3g in their
house. No, I'm saying about
the middle of nowhere where
there's that one person who
has the phone. Yeah. Yes.
So the person who owns
a phone can set up
a little table and what
they do, what they actually
had there in Tanzania was
a desk phone with a
cell phone adapter. So basically
you have like this cell
phone that is just a
place to plug in your
desk phone. And they would
set up a cardboard box
on the side of the
road. And they would say,
it's like one shilling, one
Tanzanian shilling per minute. And
you can talk on the
phone and you just sit
there on a desk phone
in the middle of nowhere
for shade. Oh the cardboard
boxes with opponents sitting on.
But it's back to your
point. It's all about communication.
And there's actually a buddy
of mine. Who's got a
project called the  project,
which is trying to make
an online Swahili dictionary and
he wants to make it
available via SMS so that
someone who doesn't speak English
could text an English word
to the dictionary and then
get back the equivalent word
in Swahili. That would be
like an example of a
really cool app that you
could write that would not
necessarily be like a, an
iPhone app. It'd be more
like a text gateway. Yeah.
They're also using it for
doing things. Like I know
that in India to ensure
the produce like, so they
don't purchase more inventory, say
like dairy, perishable items than
you can ever actually use.
Like they've got these really
complicated networks of people who
are just SMS in each
other and ordering like a
certain amount of dairy based
on a certain amount of
orders, et cetera, et cetera.
I mean, it's kind of
bizarre, like how totally integral
the whole thing is like
the, Yes, it's just like,
FIDOnet, FIDOnet over SMS for
dairy. And I hope that
our listeners can write in
the comments about if you
are in fact from Africa
or from India from way
out in middle of nowhere
to validate that we're not
just a bunch of white
guys talking about stuff we
don't know about nowhere. Is
that what you're saying? I'm
saying that Africa, India, and
then also South Dakota. Okay. Do
we have any South Dakotans
here tonight? Where does John
Sheehan? I don't know. Yeah.
He's from Minnesota and he's
probably from Minneapolis. My brother
lives outside Portland in the
middle of nowhere and he
moved out there so he
could have a couple of
acres and everything. And they've
been out there three months
now and they finally broke
and his wife called and
he's like, I need internet
There's 24, four. Is that
fast? I'm getting 24, four.
Is that good? Like, I
think that your cables are
dirty. You're someone needs to
go and scrape the copper.
So they're going to go
either satellite or DS and
they're only three miles out
of town. Can they get
DSL or actually, you know
what, a cable, the cable
cable as much better penetration
and yeah. Yeah. From what
I remember, it's about distance
from the central Office has
limited distance over copper, but
cable works better. Hey everybody,
this is Scott coming at
you from another place in
time. No doubt. You probably
bumped into testing tasks now,
and then, and your work
and, you know, writing functional
tests is probably not your
favorite thing. It's kind of
difficult. It takes time and
the results can be dubious.
Well, get ready to start
liking tests. Thanks to Tellerik
with the, the new whereby
testing framework building web automation
test is a breeze. You've
got code automation with advanced
asp.net, Ajax and certified applications.
You can write a single
test, have it executed against
multiple browsers at once. You'd
benefit from a rich API
there's link support integration with
visual studio, unit testing, also
end unit X unit and
MBE unit, not to mention
the free rappers for Telerik
rad controls for ESPN and
Ajax and several light, all
shipping with Telerik's new testing
tool. One of the best
features, the webinar testing framework,
which is developed by art
of test is it's absolutely
free. Freddie got hooked on
web testing framework, start using
it right away, go to
tellerik.com for more info. Thanks
a lot. Staying with the
theme of mobile development. So
I really enjoyed Roy's iPhone
presentation, but I got them
and I was really kind
of horrified like by objective
C and you sort of
hinted at this, you're like,
well, I'm going to start
repeating a lot of stuff
and I'm going to do
this stuff over and over,
and I'm gonna use all
these brackets that kind of
makes sense. And I thought
you, you had a good
way of explaining it. And
I think it was, it
was neat. Maybe you could
talk a little bit about
the juxtaposition of objective C
I'm gonna hand it over
objective C versus a mano
touch, which that seems to
be sorta like the new
hotness of like, maybe this
will get simpler. Cause I
looked at it and went,
wow, that's cool. But that's
like kind of like a
little bit further back in
time, all your eighties analogies,
like back to the future
a little bit further back
in time than I want
to go. So, Okay. So
I got, I got in
some trouble when I did
the Don rocks episode where
they interviewed me about iPhone
development. Yeah. Because, and then
I listened to all those
things you said, and I
repeated them on our stupid
podcasts and Miguel was like,
yeah, that's true. You got
us in trouble. Well, that's
the thing. No. So we're
just spreading wrong information. Okay.
Well, well, okay. So I'm
talking to Carl and you
know, we're just making conversation
and I'm thinking, this is
a show for.net developers. So
I'm presenting the information from
the point of view of
a.net developer. What does it
done? A developer need to
know about iPhone development? Right.
And the first thing is
objective C is nothing Like
any dominant language you've ever
used. And to me it
was a little bit, it
was a little bit scary,
right? You're getting away from
your fancy easy dot notation.
Properties are a completely different
thing. Everything has a different
name, right. And interface from,
from Dianetta, it's called a
protocol and objective C a
a method is a message.
And they actually are technically
different. There's all these just
weird, bizarre things. And, and
they're holdovers from like 1996.
And that's why I say
that installing the Ivan SDK
is like installing a flux
capacitor inside your computer. Right.
You just go back in
time and you code like
it's 1980s again, right? Yeah.
Yeah. And, and, and, and
I actually, at first it
scared me, but I started
to really enjoy it because
of that bizarreness. Again, we
were talking about it being
a, you want a program
to be a hard again,
you should learn objective C
with me, I've been, I've
been working with Chris Ellis
actually weekend after weekend doing
F and velvet with him.
And we just been banging
our heads on keyboards at,
at times, Chris sells is
brilliant. Right. But, but there
are things that we run
up against that he's not,
we're not, we're not even
gonna talk about that. We're,
we're apparently iPhone developers in
that freaking hard because people
are doing it. We know
what we know now. There's
a certain, there's a certain
level of iPhone like the
first year or so of
iPhone development is going to
be people writing dinky little
apps that takes them 16
minutes to drag to get
other things and selling them
for 99 cents. And that that's
going to work for a
year or so because it's
no competition. But the minute,
you know, as the platform
matures, you have to write
some pretty good apps to
beat up. I mean, you
know, I just, I just,
just think about like, you
want to have a little
application to track how much
you weigh every day. And
pretty soon that becomes, you
know, all the exercises that
you did that day. And
then it's got to have
videos showing you how to
do more exercises. And then
it's got to have a
measure, your biceps feature and
all kinds of stuff. This
stuff just gets added. It
becomes more and more complicated.
And at some point you
have to be a good
developer in the early days,
you can get away with
some little dinky things and
point being the flashlight app
was okay at some point.
Right? And, and, and you
can actually, you can, you
engrave, that's a good point
too. You can create the
flashlight out though with new
projects and you're done and
that's it, you've got a
flashlight app. So you could
do that. But as you,
as you go along, not
only is the functionality more
important, but performance is a
big deal, right? So there,
there are people who are
going to use a lot
of the builtin convenience of
the whole view system to
build a table. For example,
if you do that, you're
going to have a chunky,
terribly scrolling table. That is
so it's not like it
doesn't come out perfect. And
pretty right off the bat,
right. You end up having
to bypass all that and
go straight to the CAPC.
I juxtapose this to the
time when I tried to
move my Palm pilot application,
when the Palm pilot was
dying from C to C
sharp on the little windows
mobile phone. And it took
me like three days to
like put together a nice
little blood sugar application grid,
detail. The problem was it
was ugly. But from like
a productivity perspective, it was
ridiculous. He had his string
type and everything. It was
probably very exciting. Yeah. But
you know what I'm saying?
It's just interesting that people
will work hard at something
that looks pretty. Yes. But
they will not do the
easy thing that looks ugly
when you, when you get
into it though, like my
iPhone, when I go and
I download an iPhone app,
I get so easily offended
now because I know what
it takes. I know what
it takes to build one
of these things. And I
know what people are doing
and it horrifies me like
you're angry at an application.
Yes. I'm angry at the
app, but by proxy, I'm
angry at the person who
made it. Okay. And I'm
angry at how lazy, you
know, people are how little
research they do. Like there
are all these guidelines to
make the apps usable, right.
To make them look good,
to make them usable, to
make them consistent from one
after the other. So you
never need to have a
manual. And a lot of
people don't need to bother
to read the most basic
documents to make that happen.
And as a result, the
app store is just packed
with garbage. Like almost everything
in there is garbage. There's
a lot of them. Well,
that's just because people are
writing unfunctional. It is like,
SourceForge, it's a graveyard of
broken technical dreams. This is
Scott, the Scott, not Scott,
the Microsoft guy. But yeah.
I mean, the iPhone apps
are, is like, SourceForge where
it's like, we've got 86,000
apps and 1% of them
are interesting and you should
care about them. That's so
much better than the one
that we used to have
all is mobile. Where if
there were 86,000 apps, they
were at, some of them
are good and some of
them are bad and they
didn't even have consistent user
interfaces. Well, they, and they
were on 86,000 different sites.
Yeah. Yeah. You had to
go find it. And they
were like, and then it
didn't work because it was
missing a button and you
didn't have a button on
your phone that you needed
to use this application, But,
but, but mano, a mano
touch. Oh yeah. So, so
mano touch, it's actually exciting
to me for almost the
same reason that just objective
C development for the iPhone.
Isn't that mano touch is
brand new. Right. And, and
those guys are geniuses. Like,
I want to say that.
I mean, they are seriously
freaky smart people, and it's
a version one product that
does, you can write a
pretty solid app with it.
There's some stuff that's missing.
Right. But that's one of
my favorite parts. I mean,
one of my favorite parts
is finding the bits of
the cocoa touch framework that
they did not bind for
monitoring and writing the bindings.
I don't know why I
must be sick, but I
okay. So if you want
to use a cocoa touch
type, like if there's, for
example, the serialization bits in
cocoa, the, the, the libraries
for the iPhone, they're very
different from any kind of
Danette serialization. It isn't, it's
just like wrapping the windows
API. Like there's some something
you want to call on
the windows API. That's not
exposed into the.net framework. It's
it's you have a wrapper.
It's almost like that, except
that because you're dealing with
a completely, I mean, they've
got to pass everything through
the objective C runtime, right?
So they've got a wrapper
around the objective C runtime,
and you've got a set
of attributes that they use
to either export types to
the objectives, the runtime, or
make objective C cocoa types
available to.net. Right. It's just
fascinating. And there's some things
you just can't do right
now. And that's one of
my favorite parts, right? And
those guys are gonna, they're
gonna fix it. You get
those guys two, three months,
and The model guys are
gonna have everything, put it
over this going to be
necessary. But right now, if
you really want to write
an app, that's going to
be able to like save
state properly, restore properly a
B performance. You're going to
have to do some story
like writing for the Palm
pilot again, where it's like,
you could be shut down
at any point. But, but,
but, but it's, but it's
not that it's not quite
that, right. Because the things
that you can do, you
really do write half the
code. Like Miguel loves to
talk about properties. And it's
a great example because in
the objective C world, you
have to write your local
in your head or file.
Then you've got to write
the property, a declaration, that's
going to represent it. And
then you've got to put
the synthesized statement in the
implementation file. You're just talking,
right? I mean, you're like,
you're translating stuff from English
to Japanese and back into
English. And I have no
idea what you're saying. ,
it's a million steps. And
just to hook it up
to a UI component that
exists in interface, builder is
a whole extra set of
steps with mano touch. You
want an interface builder, which
is their UI designer. You
create your button or whatever
it is, and you give
it, we'll just call it.
You give it a name.
It's called an outlet, but
we'll just say a name
and mano touch. As soon
as you save that interface
file will generate a partial
class that will make all
of those UI components available
to use properties. And you
don't have to wire anything
away. It's like wind forms
and how wind farms is
really a very, very light
framework on top of wind
32. It is, it's all
alive, but there's so many
things that were hard and
went 32. They're just done
for you. It's not, it's
not a lie that because
cocoa touch, like you cannot
do things a doughnut way
for the iPhone or else
we're going to be wrong.
If you try to ride
like a.net app for the
iPhone, you're going to screw
up like the point isn't
to make it possible, to
write.net apps for the iPhone.
It's to be able to
write iPhone apps using.net. Right.
I don't know if that
makes sense, but string manipulation,
data manipulation, all of that
is so much easier. You
wonder when you, when you,
when you see something like
that, and you must be
wondering if the people at
Apple that engineered this stuff
have ever looked at any
other programming frameworks, other than
the one they're using, because
they haven't figured out some
of the stuff that was
invented 20 years ago to
make programming easier. And it
happens in the other direction
too. Of course. No, no,
but it's really true. Okay.
I can understand if they
said, look, we just, haven't
had time to fix up
objective C and to add
to these following features. But
some only 20 years, you
look at these, you look
at these application frameworks and
this stuff is they, they
don't even seem to be
aware that certain technologies have
been invented in programming languages
in application frameworks. Things like,
you know, this stuff is
starting to show up in
C sharp. So C sharp
3.0 is classic certain things
that are starting to shop
in. C-sharp like a little
bit of type inference, which
was invented in probably, well,
I was first learning about
it in college. So Haskell
1988 or something, the idea
of type inference, which the
only thing we're the only
place that showed up in
C sharp is the VAR
statement. And then in first
the type. So if you
have something that's a variant.
Yeah. Okay. Okay. That's another
invention. It's a dish that
I dispatch clients and I
call my dispatch, but I'm
pretty good in Joel terms.
Okay. So it's a thing
that can, it's a, it's
a variable in Joe's world.
Okay. I'm sorry. I have
to go back to 10
years because I haven't paid
attention. It's a virus. A
virus compile time. Correct. Okay.
Totally understood. So VAR is
a feature called type inference
with a compiler, actually figures
out what types of things,
tactics, sugar, and syntactic sugar.
And it's only partially implemented
in C sharp, for example,
can you do it? Can
you can't use it for
a parameter. Okay. That's not
there yet, but there are
programming languages such as Haskell
and ML. How would you
use it for parameter? You
would say far X, how
would you know how someone
was going to call you?
Two guys could call you
differently. Only one of them
would work because you decided
to code, you would be
saying X equals 12. And
it would know that it's
an ENT, or you would
be saying print FX. And
it would know that it's
a string. You couldn't know
that because two people would
call you from two different
places. The one who gets
mad, it's not, who's calling
you. It's what you're doing
with the variable. And you're
using that variable in places.
And it turns out that
you can deduce what type
of thing is supposed to
be. And if this sounds
bizarre to you, a go
look at Haskell or ML,
there are languages that do
this completely, a hundred percent
tech type inference. And B,
we got wasabi, which is
a language that some idiot
profile, no, sorry. This is
some kid at fog Creek
software, right? I don't know
what I'm going to have.
Andrews is going to call
you now. And you're going
to arm wrestle. Does Andrew
say you can't do type
in, for instance, he not.
I'm not saying you can
or can't do. I'm just
saying here as a layman,
as a non compiler designer,
as a person who doesn't
own a multimillion dollar company
in New York, I'm just trying
to think about the logistics
of parameter inference. Okay. So
you get a parameter. It
says, bar X, what do
you do with X? You
could call another function, right?
Maybe I return X, maybe
I X plus plus a
X plus pluses in a
day plus plus plus plus
as an operator, I could
have overdone operator overloading. Ah,
that's a good question. Okay.
Well, I don't know if
ASCO has that porno letting
it. And sometimes it's true
that sometimes these languages, like
if you look at Oh,
camel, it's very bizarre in
that there is talking to
you. It's like talking to
a college professor. Hold on,
hold on. I think, I
think, I mean, maybe because
I'm sorta dumb, so it
might help for me to
give the numbers. You may
find when the listeners hear
this show that we're all
doing, You just look at
how somebody's calling the function,
right. And you can figure
out from that, what kind
of data is being passed
in, right? And either it's
going to work or it's
not. And that's, let me,
let me tell you, the
wasabi programming language developed at
fog Creek is VB script
where nothing is, things are
totally bummed. They don't have
to be, and it does
full type inference. So it
is possible. And BB script
like languages, why doesn't it
compile more into more than
one application? It, well, that's
just cause we didn't bother
implementing all this little specific
language. Joel was just way
ahead of his time. Domain
specific language that compiles into
one application, it was given
to the lab. Why don't
you give it to the
world? Ah, because it sucks.
Well, you heard it here
first. Good night, everybody tip
your waiter. That's the best.
I've you know, any podcasts
I've done with Joel? That's
the single best thing he's
ever said. And I love
it. That has to be
published somewhere. T shirts made
me, it sucks. Exactly. You
shouldn't be wearing it. You
had to invent a language
whose only goal of this
language was to compile the
source code that you already
had. You wouldn't bother implementing
all kinds of useful language
features. We've done this before.
I'm with you brother. I'm
with you. Here's the thing.
I know why you wrote
wasabi and I agree and
I'm with you, but to
then declare it a surprise.
Your, your general purpose language
is a bit of a
stretch. Try compiling Fritz as
possible. Try compiling. It is
an existence proof of type
inference. It proves that you
can infer types. Okay. To
be clear. Yeah. We're not
talking about it. I think
everyone understands. You can do
type inference. Yeah. I was
just saying I had to
do it with a parameter.
I just said with parameters,
it might require a little
more thought. That's sense between
calling a function with a
parameter and assigning to a
variable because you can call
it. I can passion because
I could call Fu with
a string and Fu with
a food, with another variable
called a and Fu with
a number three different times
and the same application you're
going to have to generate
three D. If that's going
to ever be tightly back
to put a stop to
the armchair language, You can't
be doing that because that's
a type error he's describing.
He's describing generics. He's completely.
You're delusional. You're delusional. No,
no, no, no. You're not
going to finish it. No.
All right. So here's the
deal, right? You got, that
is a type error. Let's
you and I talk here.
This is fact Scott, if
you call the same function
once with an H went
to the string, that is
a type error, right? Aha
type inference. Doesn't mean you
can't ever have type errors.
The type inference says type
error. The type infer can
say you have a type
error. Well, hold on. You
just blow stuff up at
runtime. Well, no, I think
objective to see where you
can blow stuff up at
runtime where you can just
pass anything and he wants
it. We have got to
stop. This Is Joel jolt
with all due respect. Joel,
Joe, we're 50 minutes into
this and I'm just telling
you, the comments are not
going to go well for
you on this one. That's
because you're not letting me
explain. Alright, well actually I
have a segue because I
was intrigued. I do know
I have a segue in
the other sense of the
word. You said you, thank
you. I mispronounced it as
usual a you, I would
like to say you into
a different topic. So you,
you showed, you showed to
us visual studio 2010 beta
two, which just came out.
It's true. Yes. And I
was actually, although, you know,
I do not. I try
to avoid the new and
shiny the bang PI developer
problem. I'm gonna say the
shininess was very attractive to
me that got you. It
was the non rectangular splash
train. First of all,
let me just let that
sink in non rectangular spot
spot. Yeah, exactly, exactly. So
I thought maybe you could
go over just a few
of the highlights in terms
of like what's Coming. Cause
I haven't, haven't really had
time to look at it,
but no, I haven't at
all. So are you setting
me up to be a
shill? I know. I just
honestly want to know. It
doesn't have type in for
instance, parameter types. Cause it's
Passing a parameter Assignment. If
you could do it with
assignment, you can do it
parameters. I will tell you
a few things and then
Joel will tell us when
they were demented. I will
then I'll just tell you.
And then Joel say 1904
and I was there. Okay.
Okay. Just so much. Okay.
What do you care about
asp.net? Obviously MVC core language
stuff. Like C-sharp 4.0, this
is like a real runtime
change. This is the side
by side runtime, which means
that it's not a fake,
there was never a fake
runtime. There were fake runtime.
There've been four runtime, One
Oh one, one, two And
four. Yes. So we're actually
getting a new runtime. So
you're getting a new side
by side 3.0 and 3.5.
You can put me up.
You can put four O
on a machine with two
Oh and three and three,
five. And it will keep
running as before. Nice. You
can have a machine, like
a windows server machine that
has different virtual directories and
runs one, one, two Oh
three, five, four, Oh all
on the same machine and
they'll they won't break it
installing four. Oh, it won't
break your three, five app.
Right? Right. So let me
just go off the top
of my head. So at
1.0, was okay. Initial release
of.net. 1.1 was the non
broken version finally, right? 2.0
actually added generics. I'm just
listening to highlights later. Yeah.
Three. Oh, I think was
link. No, that was WTF.
Three, five was link. Wasn't
it? Yeah. Three Oh was
an extension was WPF. W
a CF. So my point
is there's a few Highline
features the big stuff. The
big marketing stuff. Give me
the big 4.0, sell, like
make me believe. Make you
believe. Make me believe again
that I can fly. Well,
NBC two ships out of
the box, right? jQuery ships
with asp.net. What? Regular. These
are not language. He thinks
language. Okay. Dynamic the DLR
ships. Okay. Okay. So that
means you've got iron Python,
iron, Ruby. You've got also
calm better combining. So if
you're going to call CommonWell,
so wait, iron Python and
Ruby are going to ship
like parallel with four point.
Oh. Or is that going
to yeah, they'll they'll they'll
probably be out of band.
I'm not sure. I'd have
to ask those guys what
the DLR is in the
box. Oh, nice. So that's
so that means that you
could go and you could
say, you know, a VAR
VAR, you could say, you
know, VAR P equals Python,
I'll create runtime and then
give it a whatever.py and
then call it. You get
me? I can say no,
actually wouldn't say VAR or
you take dynamic rather. Excuse
me. It's tell me on
the code simplification. Because to
me, one of the smart
things about not net was
it sort of got rid
of some of the cruft,
like as I went from
2.0 to three Oh three,
five, I could use the
VAR key word. I could
use generics, these guys property
stuff. Right? Property shattered, getter
setter. Automatic. It's just one
line now. Sure. Right. So
yeah, there are things that
made my life. You could
have name parameters, parameters. That's
cool. When you're calling calm,
you don't have to keep
saying missing comma missing. Come
missing. Yeah. You have named
that's a good one. Yeah.
Is that a comment? I
wanted to say, first of
all, that I got comments
after today's talk where I
was told that one of
the most exciting parts was
where I showed the difference
between doing properties in objective
C and in C-sharp. Right.
Instead of having to do
it in the 5 million lineups
and no, it was, and
I liked, I got to
make it clear too. I
just wanted to cause I
like objective C and I
like developing for the iPhone
Apple guys. I'm sorry. I
like the stuff, but C-sharp
getting to do all that
stuff on one line, get
my whole, just get everything
done there. It was amazing.
And people were genuinely really
excited about getting to do
that for the iPhone. Right.
And in fact, I'm sorry,
can we go back to
something in a little while?
At least the Joel brought
up, it's been a while
since I've done any windows
development. Now, why would I
get so excited about, would
you say like better calm
something or other, I mean,
is this real? So here's
the thing. This is, I
like to call it. This
is Scott talking, not Microsoft
talking. I like to think
of it as a customer
pain release. There's a whole
bunch of stuff that people
were hurting about. Not necessarily
stuff that you Rory care
about, but people who are
automating doing business problems, automating
word and Excel on the,
you know, they're trying to
get it done would, would
be pretty excited about how
using the DLR and the
combiner to make things easier.
Right now name parameters is
huge because once you have,
I mean, if you try
to avoid having functions like
seven parameters, that will be
extreme, right? 47 grammar. Yeah.
Yeah. So another example on
the comp side is the
ability to do a type
inference with a dynamic, which
is you can have like
a Pia primary interrupt assembly
and you like reference a
word interrupt assembly. And that
would ordinarily be like a
20 Meg file. You have
to carry around. Now you
can just say embed inter-op
assemblies. And it'll look at
the types that you use
and then just embed the
ones that you need. And
then it runtime later, it'll
say, Oh, well, these types
that he has embedded are
the same ones that are
installed in the machine. You
don't have to ship the
PIs and it makes your
application smaller. Right. And you
also mentioned there's a dynamic
keyword was a dynamic keyword.
So you know how you
could do make calls with
reflection now. Right. You could
go and you know, I
see you, you could do
reflection and reflection was so
painful, but it's not painful
anymore. Cause there's a, there's
a, Oh, so you could
actually take dynamic, you know,
a equals and then wander
around the ABI. You could
take calc dot add. Oh.
And even though it doesn't,
you know, you don't know
until runtime, if it has
the add method, it's the
equivalent of a, you know,
calc equals new calculator and
then a dot add and
then suddenly you, yeah. Yeah.
But this means this part
of the base framework. This
is an ILD. You can
use this in wasabi though.
Here we are fighting to
get back things they were
in now, literally tell next
to the objective C guys,
they haven't even gotten there
so long. You taught me
of the objectives. So what's
so what's cool about it
Is that you get, you
get binders, you get Python,
you get Ruby, you get
calm, you get dotnet. So
stuff that you were doing
that was like meta programming
type stuff and like code,
you know, any time that
you were well, anytime you
want basically call site dispatching,
dynamic, dispatch of methods and
all the framework underneath it
to make it fast. That's
all included on the box.
Actually, all I need to
hear the money line for
me is it makes reflection
not painful. Oh, I'm making
an app scriptable you can
take any app and then
just tell I'm going to
expose these objects. And now,
now I can drop in
Python. And the app is
scriptable. Yeah. I'm going to
make baby smash Python addition
basically. And like kids could
write their own apps using
the baby smash framework or
whatever. It might be a
sort of steep learning curve
to the regular babies user.
Right. For infants. I think
it may be a struggle,
but not for rock-hard awesome.
Of course. No. He's way
ahead of his time. It's
true. So, w what's the
ETA roughly on like for
Panella being available? Like for
real, I'm not sure. I
mean, they, I saw online
something about next March, but
I don't know. I'd have
to check sometime next year
then probably sooner than later
sooner. No, no I'm saying
that. I honestly don't know.
I read on Twitter. Someone
said next March, but I'd
have to go and check
beta two came out now.
So that would be six
months from now. Well, what
about, okay, so that was
the language, which I think
is the core thing. That's
interesting. But what about, what
about the IDE? Because I
think, Oh yeah. So the
IDE like most of the
IDs using WPF now, which
means that you can write
plugins for the IDE in
managed code. They had a
nice icon. I just wanna
point that out, But yeah,
I'm looking forward to the
ID, improving one thing like
multimillionaire, There's an app store
for IDE extensions really. Or
you can go tools, extension
manager, and you can download
dynamically. So check this out
and pay for it and
all that stuff. I don't
think about the pay for
it part because it's like,
it's like a store, but
it's like a store where
everything's free. So there's an
extension estimate store. So there
was this there's this demo
that we did internally, where
I'm at, there's an internal
conference. We have, it's kind
of like a mini ticket
and the only member of
the Songsmith thing we like.
So this guy wrote an
extension, that embedded song, so
you can sing your comments.
And it was, it was
an example of, it was
pretty crazy, stupid, but awesome.
But the point was that
to see it was exactly
what we did and what
he did was he put
in some comments and in
the markup for the comments
Dragons here, It's like Sondheim
on Sondheim with, with type
inference. You could put in
some markup inside of your,
your comments and then key
off of that. And then
literally drop, he dropped the
Songsmith component into the editor
itself. So the point is
you can interact with the
editor in a way that
you could never do before.
So it's much more extensible.
Oh yeah. And you have
multi-monitor support. That's been the
whole thing now. Right? Like
give me like the top
three things that you notice
When I saw you get
into it. Yeah. WPF apps
typically have a, have a
bad reputation of being blurry.
That's totally fixed. And the
speed of WPF is really
fast. So w visual studio
2010 is written mostly in
WPF now, but it's as
fast as it was in
2008. So it just looks
better. It just looks better.
It looked good. You get
like controls, crawl support in
your, so you can like
zoom in and out of
your code. Yeah. Yeah. It's
I mean, it's pretty cool.
Very great. Pretty cool. There's
a whole new redesign new
project dialogue box to in
my world for the past
year, I've had a color
coded. Oh. And the, the
ad referenced dialogue is multi-threaded
now, now that was the
big deal for me was
getting code completion that mostly
worked. We just got refactor
for some things. Okay. So,
so you guys are like,
Oh, it's pretty cool. You
know, but I mean, seriously,
like when I, when I
see visual studio, like 2003,
I get jealous. Right. I
mean, it's a totally different
where you get the ID
thing down. Pretty solid. It's
it's it's nice. It's nice.
Oh, Oh, the other thing
done it for the bootstrapper
for done at four it's
like, was it like 80%
smaller than before you can
start installing Dutton at four,
put downloading a, was it
less than one Meg? So
it's like a 1.8 Meg
bootstrapper and it comes down
to there's a client profile.
If you're only going to
install a client app and
then there's a server profile.
So if you're going to
install a, you know, I
don't know the rory.net application,
it's not going to install
asp.net on the person's machine.
Cause it's not needed. Did
I hear you say the
compilation is finally multithreaded for
like, actually this is something
I learned actually on the
seaside compilation is just very
easy to multithread. But on
the compilation where you can
come, you can do military
compilation now in three, five
kind of ms. Build slash
M and you put the
number of projects. Yeah. But
it doesn't really scale. Whereas
the C stuff like ,
What's that out of your
ass? What are you talking
about? I've written articles about
this. I know, but I'm
just saying, so they fixed
that. So now out of
the box, I don't know
what has been fixed about
multi-threaded compiling other than the
fact that I've been doing
it for years. Well, cause
when I posted it on
my blog, all the C
programs can know that we
were working like, ah, we're
gonna Lynch you because you
know, Spilled support multi-pronged for
a long time. Yeah. It
really has her saying, Oh,
but speaking of, But wait
on the seaside, you own
a funeral. It Linearly like
perfectly. Well, that would be
great if you, if you
knew how to code C.
Well, I don't code C,
but that was my point.
It's like, I would like
to, I just, I always
feel the need to give,
to give a Jeff crap
about never learning, see 10
times as much good. Do
the same thing and see
it should be great because
it scales linearly. Well, I
got a whole caveat around
my recommendation. I was like,
okay, I really need quad
core. Unless you're a C
program, then you really need
it. But seriously, about on
the core stuff, the parallel
framework extensions is a huge,
huge parking now. Oh, that's
in four point it's built
in. It's built in. So
that means if you have
like a four loop or
you're doing like some link
and you just want to
say, ah, you know, I
wish I could do this
across multiple processors. You just
say parallel dot four. And
then you just for each
over stuff, or if you
want to do link, that's
like a big link query
over a huge dataset. You
could say, you know, from
FN, whatever.as parallel dot with
degrees of parallelism and then
pick the number of processes
you want to use. So
then you can take any,
any big enumeration or I
query we'll enter anything over
a large list and then
do it on multiple products.
And then there's also gateway
you like, did you do
that too? I had this
thing, this language, there was
a line. Joel is the
star, which is walking right
now. What the heck were
those machines that I had
in college? The parallel, super,
super parallel trays. It was
after the Cray, after the
Craig concurrent, it was a
thing we should, maybe there's
a thinking machine STEM connection
between it's called the connection
and actually machine. It just
had buckets and buckets about
buckets of 83, 86 chips.
And there was a language
for it called Seastar. There's
another language called Fortran star.
And you could run C
code, unfortunately code and a
and C code that it
would just automatically massively palatalized
for you just by adding
a little stars in various
magical places. It would cause
you to loops to run
in parallel automatically. Erline isn't
that the language does you're
right now that people are
talking about that does that
actually it's like designed for
parallelism. It's extremely well in
those days. And this may
still be the case. It's
extremely, sometimes it really doesn't
help because you think, all
right, I got this big
array of just the cost
of moving the data to
all these different CPS or
do this different cores is
actually higher than the amount
of time it was depressing
yourself. We added a bunch
of new visualization tools now
where you can see all
the threads, what they're doing,
what they're blocked on, why
they're blocked. Oh, Ooh, historical
debugging. Just like TiVo for
your debugging.  but historically
booking, you can actually back
up and the debugger for
threatening when the whole, no,
but I'm just saying you
can go forward and you
can go backwards and I'm
not, I can say drop
it. It's wait a minute.
What do you like that
to step, step, step in
the back. And then you
can also go and say,
well, I want to take
this Intel a trace file.
And then I want to
give it, I want it
to tell the trace is
cool. Cause you can then
wrap it up and then
give it to somebody else.
Like, like, like remember the
replay TV used to do
that. And you can say
here, figure this out. So
rather than having someone to
dump, you had them in
Intel, a trace. Awesome. And
then they just keep debugging
from where you left off.
Nice transition point. So where
we're going to wrap it
up. But real briefly, I
want to tie into the
Apple world. Like what I
know they're very secretive, which
is, well, I'm just saying,
cause I'm curious, like where
are they going? Like with
Microsoft, one of nice things
is they're almost too open,
like 2010. We know what's
happening and blah, blah, blah.
So like what's next for
iPhone? Like, are they gonna
improve the environment? Are they
gonna do garbage collection? Well,
garbage collection already exists in
objective C too. I would
just not on the phone
for some reason. As far
as where they're gonna go
with it. Joel, you were
saying that I'm not saying
he knows. I'm saying that
early on, you were talking
about how it seems like
the people in the episode
and the objective seaside have
never really looked at anything
else. And that is exactly
the case. If you go
to your own site, if
you go to stack overflow.com,
which I visit, anytime somebody
asks a question about like
mano touch, you get five
angry comments about when do
you want to learn a
new language? Why don't you
just use objective? You get,
at least when you get
to these people who are
really upset about somebody wanting
to learn anything else. So
people don't like, I don't
want to say that people
don't like progress in the
objective C world, but they
just got objective. See progress.
Well, it's it's they, they
don't have perspective. They don't
like listening to you guys.
Talk about these things. I'm
thinking I'm just in there
with GDB, like stepping over
stuff, hoping that I can
expect. I can expect a
property. I've got to go
to the console to inspect
a property. By your hand,
using chemo. You code it
to work for Microsoft. Not
yet. I mean, I did,
I did that once and
it was, I mean, it
was cool. It was fun.
Everything. But I actually, I
like this. I it's not
suffering. It's a challenge. It's
a hobby. It's like, it's
like being a hobbyist. It's
it's it feels like, it
feels like the frontier, even
though it's actually really old,
but I mean, it feels
like you're a hobbyist. Who's
suffering. I'm a hobbyist. Who's
getting paid and suffering. Making
programming too easy is can
not end well, cannot end.
Well if programming, if the
compiler took care of everything,
if you just sort of
who needs these, like these,
these, these Cadillacs where there's
no, you don't feel the
road. Let's go fall. You're
going to hit. You're going
to hit a kid and
you're not going to know,
get a child with your
car. And the shock is
going to be so good.
We gotta, we gotta sign
this off, but I'm not
going to be able to
say the phone number of
this stack overflow. Now you're
hitting kids with cattle that
are never going to be
a little upset. I literally
don't even know where I
can put this thing. I
can't put it on. I
can't put it on Microsoft.
I can't put on Hanselman.
It's the audio and hitting
kids with Cadillacs. No, the
audio is horrible. I'm just
going to throw this thing
up on. This is going
to mega upload.com. I liked
it too. I thought it
was good. It was good.
Alright. Well we're going to
give it a thumbs up.
Ready? Wait, wait, wait, wait.
We'll make the audio good.
We will really, we will.
This is going to be
Hansel minutes and stack overflow
podcast and crappy edition contact
stack overflow. If you have
any questions for me and
Jeff call the stack overflow
podcast hotline. Oh, there it
is. (646) 826-3879 or email podcast
stack overflow.com is also where
we could patient training transcripts.
People who couldn't understand what
we were saying. Cause you
have to read it and
you can also parade us
in the comments. Thank you.
Feel free to bring some
comments. Now what's the closing
for the hands on minutes.
This has been another horrific
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.